may 1st, i think, is completely unrealistic, said dr. ashish jha, director of the harvard global health institute. , probably for several months. but you might have to do it over and over again, since the outbreak could come in waves. ,older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions may be at higher risk for more serious complications from covid., based on available evidence, children do not appear to be at higher risk for covid than adults. , the risk depends on where you are   and more specifically, whether there is a covid outbreak unfolding there. , we do not have information from published scientific reports about the susceptibility of pregnant women to covid. pregnant women experience immunologic and physiologic changes, which might make them more susceptible to viral respiratory infections, including covid. , smoking cigarettes can leave you more vulnerable to respiratory illnesses such as covid. smoking cigarettes is known to cause heart and lung disease and people with underlying heart and lung problems may have increased risk for serious complications from covid., e cigarette use can expose the lungs to toxic chemicals, but whether those exposures increase the risk of covid or the severity of covid outcomes is not known., this is not a good time to be vaping or smoking anything. , younger people seem to be insulated to some extent to protect them from getting particularly sick., researchers do not have information from published scientific reports about susceptibility of pregnant women to this covid., based on available evidence, children do not appear to be at higher risk for covid than adults. , based on currently available information and clinical expertise, older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions might be at higher risk for severe illness from covid. , its not known yet whether all of these children are at higher risk for severe illness from covid., most people with disabilities are not inherently at higher risk for becoming infected with or having severe illness from covid., those in complex humanitarian crises, which lack the infrastructure, support, and health systems to mount a comprehensive response. , patients with underlying medical conditions and the elderly, smokers were 1.4 times more likely (rr1.4, 95% ci 0.98 2.00) to have severe symptoms of covid and approximately 2.4 times more likely to be admitted to an icu, need mechanical ventilation or die compared to non smokers (rr2.4, 95% ci 1.43 4.04), the risk depends on where you live or where you have travelled recently. the risk of infection is higher in areas where a number people have been diagnosed with covid. , while we are still learning about how covid 2019 affects people, older persons and persons with pre existing medical conditions (such as high blood pressure, heart disease, or diabetes) appear to develop serious illness more often than others.,although the new covid weakens and dies over time outside of the human body, studies suggest that it can live on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days, depending on surface, temperature and other environmental factors., clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces, such as tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets and sinks. , studies suggest that covides (including preliminary information on the covid virus) may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days. this may vary under different conditions (e.g. type of surface, temperature or humidity of the environment). , yes. the likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes covid from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low. , i would suggest wiping down external surfaces of canned or wrapped foods, said dr. celine gounder, an infectious disease specialist at bellevue hospital center. , covid can stay alive for up to three days on stainless steel and plastic. but clothing is probably more like cardboard — its more absorbent, so the virus is unlikely to stay and last that long., no. the new covid cannot be transmitted through goods manufactured in china or any country reporting covid cases , viruses can live on surfaces and objects — including on money — although your chance of actually getting covid from cash is probably very low., up to three days, depending on the surface. , although the virus can survive for a short period on some surfaces, it is unlikely to be spread from domestic or international mail, products or packaging. , yes. the likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes covid from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low., it is not certain how long the virus that causes covid survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other covides. studies suggest that covides (including preliminary information on the covid virus) may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days.,corona means crown, and covides have a crown of protruding points on their surface that give them a characteristic appearance when seen under a microscope. covides are a whole family of viruses; there are many.,  covid is a new disease, caused by a novel (or new) covid not previously seen in humans., covid disease 2019 (covid) is a respiratory illness that can spread from person to person. , the new name of this disease is covid disease 2019, abbreviated as covid. in covid, co stands for corona, vi for virus, and d for disease. formerly, this disease was referred to as 2019 novel covid or 2019 ncov. ,  as covid disease discovered in 2019 (covid), severe acute respiratory syndrome covid 2 , covid is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered covid. this new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in wuhan, china, in december 201,experts say its due to cuts in federal funding for public health and problems with early testing.,several countries currently affected by the new covid outbreak are experiencing summer weather., it is not known yet if weather and temperature changes impact or has any connection with covid. at this time, it is not clear or known if the spread of covid will decrease when the weather becomes warmer. , generally covides survive for shorter periods of time at higher temperatures and higher humidity than in cooler or dryer environments. however, we dont have direct data for this virus, nor do we have direct data for a temperature based cutob for inactivation at this point, , hand dryers cant kill the virus., generally covides survive for shorter periods at higher temperatures and higher humidity than in cooler or dryer environments.,according to the food and drug administration (fda), there have not been any cases of covid known to be caused from eating food or handling food packaging., currently there is no evidence of food or food packaging being associated with transmission of covid. , there is no evidence to suggest that food produced in the united states or imported from countries affected by covid can transmit covid. , currently, there is no evidence of food or food packaging being associated with transmission of covid. ,  currently there is no evidence of food, food containers, or food packaging being associated with transmission of covid. like other viruses, it is possible that the virus that causes covid can survive on surfaces or objects. , there are no nationwide shortages of animal food, although in some cases the inventory of certain foods at your grocery store might be temporarily low before stores can restock., theres no evidence that covid can be transmitted through food., based on information about this novel covid thus far, it seems unlikely that covid can be transmitted through food   additional investigation is needed. , currently, there is no evidence to support transmission of covid associated with food. ,early on, many of the patients at the epicenter of the covid outbreak in china had some link to a large seafood and live animal market, suggesting animal to person spread., wuhan city, china,its too early to know for sure. , at this time, we are not sure if you can become re infected. , human covides typically spread through the air by coughing and sneezing., it primarily spreads between people through respiratory droplets, like through coughs, sneezes, spittle. , the virus that causes covid is thought to spread mainly from person to person, mainly through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. ,  from person to person,, person to person, close contact with an infected person, covid was transmitted through respiratory tract and then induced pneumonia,, we found the presence of covid in anal swabs and blood as well, and more anal swab positives than oral swab positives in a later stage of infection, suggesting shedding and thereby transmitted through oral fecal route., people can catch covid from others who have the virus. the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are spread when a person with covid coughs or exhales. these droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. other people then catch covid by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. people can also catch covid if they breathe in droplets from a person with covid who coughs out or exhales droplets.,a pandemic is a global outbreak of disease. pandemics happen when a new virus emerges to infect people and can spread between people.,cdc recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain (for example, grocery stores and pharmacies) especially in areas of significant community based transmission., cover your mouth and nose with a cloth face cover when around others., in order to avoid infecting others, you should use a mask for as long as you are still coughing or sneezing. you should only stop after a complete recovery (which means 24 48 hours after having no symptoms without medication). , according to the who, for individuals without respiratory symptoms, a medical mask is not required, as no evidence is available on its usefulness to protect non sick persons., a cdc recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public when other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain (e.g., grocery stores and pharmacies) especially in areas of significant community based transmission of the covid. ,  no. surgical masks and n95s need to be reserved for use by health care workers, first responders, and other frontline workers whose jobs put them at much greater risk of acquiring covid. , the cdc recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are diffcult to maintain., cdc recommends that everyone 2 years and older wear a cloth face covering that covers their nose and mouth when they are out in the community., cdc recommends that people wear a cloth face covering to cover their nose and mouth in the community setting., people with no respiratory symptoms, such as cough, do not need to wear a medical mask. who recommends the use of masks for people who have symptoms of covid and for those caring for individuals who have symptoms, such as cough and fever.,the best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to the virus. , stay at least 6 feet away from others, and wash your hands often. , regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. maintain at least 3 feet distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing.,if hand sanitizers are not available, hand washing with soap and water is the recommended, and even better, alternative. , handwashing is one of the best ways to protect yourself and your family from getting sick. if soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol., the efficacy of these disinfection methods against the virus that causes covid is not known., if surfaces are dirty, clean them using detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection. to disinfect, most common epa registered household disinfectants will work. see ,in the lab, these drugs have been shown to prevent the growth of the virus that causes covid. there are a few reports of patients with covid who received these drugs and improved. some are reports of groups of patients, all of whom received the drug. it is not known whether it was the drug that led to the improvement or whether there were other factors involved. , chloroquine phosphate is only approved for the treatment of malaria, and hydroxychloroquine sulfate is only approved for the treatment of malaria, lupus, and rheumatoid arthritis. , no. hydroxychloroquine sulfate and some versions of chloroquine phosphate are fda approved to treat malaria. , since acidification is crucial for endosome maturation and function, we surmise that endosome maturation might be blocked at intermediate stages of endocytosis,, compare the antiviral activity of cq versus hcq, the dose response curves,  hcq is a safe and successful anti inflammatory agent,bats, there are many tests being used to diagnose covid that the u.s. food & drug administration (fda) has authorized for use during the current emergency. all of these diagnostic tests identify the virus in samples from the respiratory system, such as from nasal or nasopharyngeal swabs, all of these diagnostic tests identify the virus in samples from the respiratory system, such as from nasal or nasopharyngeal swabs. , rrt pcr test,  reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, the 2109 ncov rna was readily detected in the blood (6 of 57 patients) and the anal swabs (11 of 28 patients). ,yes. research indicates a person with the flu infects about 1.28 other people, on average. but with the novel covid, its likely between 2 and 3 other people., the number of americans killed from covid and those who have died from the flu this season are now comparable. but deaths from covid are happening at a much faster rate. ,no. currently, there is not a vaccine for covid., at this time there is no vaccine to prevent covid disease 2019 (covid)., not yet. to date, there is no vaccine and no specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat covid 2019.,its best not to make unnecessary trips, but if you need to go to a grocery store, its important to maintain social and physical distancing as you shop, and to clean your hands often while shopping and as soon as you get home., yes. buy as much as you need to lessen the number of trips and try and shop when the store is least likely to be crowded., there are steps you can take to help protect yourself, grocery store workers and other shoppers, such as wearing a face covering, practicing social distancing, and using wipes on the handles of the shopping cart or basket. ,if you are not in an area where covid is spreading, or if you have not travelled from one of those areas or have not been in close contact with someone who has and is feeling unwell, your chances of getting it are currently low.,currently, there are no specific treatments recommended for illnesses caused by covid. medical care is supportive to help relieve symptoms., people with covid should receive supportive care to help relieve symptoms. people with mild symptoms are able to recover at home. , at this time, there are no fda approved drug products to treat covid. ,people who are infected with covid have developed mild to severe respiratory illness with symptoms including fever, cough, shortness of breath, and potentially respiratory distress 2 14 days after exposure., cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fever, chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, fever and cough , patients with underlying medical conditions and the elderly, the most common symptoms of covid are fever, tiredness, and dry cough. some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea. these symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. some people become infected but dont develop any symptoms and dont feel unwell.,we currently dont fully understand how covid affects different animal species. we are aware of a very small number of pets, including dogs and cats, reported to be infected with the virus that causes covid after close contact with people with covid., cdc is aware of a small number of pets, including dogs and cats, reported to be infected with the virus that causes covid, mostly after close contact with people with covid. , uding birds, farm animals, pets, camels, an,it is important to continue your familys coping methods, including reaching out to other family members, friends, support groups, and organizations that have been helpful in the past. ,n95 mask,it is not yet known whether weather and temperature affect the spread of covid.,to be tested for covid, a sample is typically collected from your nose and/or throat with a special swab at a designated collection location staffed by health care professionals., at this time, the fda has not authorized any covid test to be completely used and processed at home. , yes, there are tests for covid. , contact your state, local, tribal, or territorial department for more information, or reach out to a medical provider. ,discourage children and teens from gathering in other public places while school is dismissed to help slow the spread of covid in the community. encourage frequent handwashing and follow other prevention tips., discourage children and teens from gathering in other public places while school is dismissed to help slow the spread of covid in the community., you can encourage your child to help stop the spread of covid by teaching them to do the same things everyone should do to stay healthy.,it varies. decisions about when a person can be released from isolation are made on a case by case basis. , how long someone is actively sick can vary so the decision on when to release someone from isolation is made using a test based or non test based strategy (i.e. time since illness started and time since recovery) in consultation with state and local public health officials.,not everyone needs to be tested for covid.,no. , at this time, cdc has no data to suggest that this new covid or other similar covides are spread by mosquitoes or ticks. ,6 covs were known to infect human, including 2 αcov (hcov 229e and hku nl63) and 4 βcov (hcov oc43 [ ,people should consider not touching the body of someone who has died of covid.,30 jan 20, 15 jan 20, 19 dec,absolutely. the vast majority of people with covid survive.,at this time, social and physical distancing are important to follow, so overall, travel is discouraged., people who are immunocompromised are at higher risk from this illness, as well as other illnesses like the flu. avoiding contact with ill people is crucial.,despite the very few reports worldwide, including here in the united states, of sick and healthy domestic animals, including pets, testing positive for covid, the official name for the virus that causes covid, there is little evidence at this time that such animals are easily infected with the virus under normal conditions, or could transmit it., although we know certain bacteria and fungi can be carried on fur and hair, there is no evidence that viruses, including the virus that causes covid, can spread to people from the skin, fur, or hair of pets., currently, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the virus that causes covid. based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals spreading covid to people is considered to be low. , there is currently no evidence that animals are a source of covid infection in the united states. , there is no reason to think that any animals, including shelter pets, play a significant role in spreading the virus that causes covid. , at this time, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the virus that causes covid. , although we know certain bacteria and fungi can be carried on fur and hair, there is no evidence that viruses, including the virus that causes covid, can spread to people from the skin, fur, or hair of pets. ,distribution is gamma distributed with mean 5.1 days and coefficient of variation, between 2 and 14 days, most estimates of the incubation period for covid range from 1 14 days, most commonly around five days.,a no. always follow the instructions on household cleaners. disinfectant sprays or wipes are intended for use on hard, non porous surfaces. disinfectant sprays or wipes are not intended for use on humans or animals. do not use disinfectant sprays or wipes on your skin because they may cause skin and eye irritation. do not inject, inhale, or ingest disinfectant sprays or household cleaners; doing so is dangerous and may cause serious harm or death. if ingested, call poison control or a medical professional immediately. , no. those products work on surfaces but can be dangerous to your body. , thats a bad idea, said dr. colleen kraft, an infectious diseases professor at emory university school of medicine. it could definitely kill you.,practice everyday preventive actions to help reduce your risk of getting sick and remind everyone in your home to do the same., create a household plan of action to help protect your health and the health of those you care about in the event of an outbreak of covid in your community .,19 dec, 2003, 4 weeks, 19 dec, s first identified in wuhan, china, wuhan city, china, wuhan, capital of hubei province, china,∼80% identity with sars cov, there are no remarkable differences between the orfs and nsps,there is no evidence that covid can be spread to humans through the use of pools and hot tubs.,yes, some young adults have subered strokes after getting covid. ,not necessarily. antibodies are a bodys response to bacteria or viruses. but this novel covid is so new, its still not clear whether having antibodies to it means you have long term protection from getting reinfected. ,studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air., covid cannot travel very far in the air, the world health organization says. , studies to date suggest that the virus that causes covid is mainly transmitted through contact with respiratory droplets rather than through the air.,antibody tests cannot be used alone to rule out covid. however, they can serve an important role. using antibody tests on many patients may help the medical community better understand the immune response in patients over time and how many people may have been infected.,there are no studies supporting the effectiveness of homemade hand sanitizer blend in killing the new covid on peoples hands., the fda does not recommend that consumers make their own hand sanitizer. , the cdc advises using hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. , cdc does not encourage the production and use of homemade hand sanitizer products.,some spread might be possible before people show symptoms. , since the virus is transmitted through respiratory droplets, the risk of catching it from somebody who is asymptomatic, even a contact of a confirmed covid case, is low. , when you speak, sometimes youll spit a little bit. youll rub your nose. youll touch your mouth. youll rub your eyes. and then youll touch other surfaces, and then you will be spreading virus if you are infected and shedding asymptomatically., the risk of catching covid from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. ,yes, go outdoors for fresh air and exercise. ride a bike, walk the dog, go for a hike, jog. social distancing does not mean staying indoors, it means avoiding close contact with people., walk dogs on a leash, maintaining at least 6 feet (2 meters) from other people and animals, do not gather in groups, and stay out of crowded places and avoid mass gatherings. ,health care providers and laboratories should report suspect covid cases immediately (within 3 hours) to their local health department., covid patients should be admitted,although a fever is a sure sign that you are sick enough not to come to work, anyone experiencing respiratory symptoms like coughing and sneezing should stay at home. ,in general, respiratory viruses are not known to be transmitted by blood transfusion, and there have been no reported cases of transfusion transmitted covid. ,convalescent plasma is being investigated for the treatment of covid because there is no approved treatment for this disease and there is some information that suggests it might help some patients recover from covid.,no. antibiotics do not work against viruses; they only work on bacterial infections. antibiotics do not prevent or treat covid disease (covid), because covid is caused by a virus, not bacteria., no, antibiotics are not effective against covid because the disease is a viral infection, not a bacterial infection. , no. antibiotics do not work against viruses, they only work on bacterial infections. covid is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work.,routine testing of pets for covid is not recommended at this time., no. at this time, routine testing of animals for covid is not recommended. ,there is no evidence to suggest contact lens wearers are more at risk for acquiring covid than eyeglass wearers., people who are healthy can continue to wear and care for their contact lenses as prescribed by their eye care professional.,with this respiratory virus, (as) with other covides, no, said dr. maria van kerkhove, technical lead for the world health organizations covid response. ,many health care workers dont actually have enough protective gear to handle the growing influx of covid patients. ,  substantial exposure risk for icu staff because of the following reasons,yes. testing positive for either the flu or covid doesnt exempt you from having the other at the same time. , although the likelihood of coinfection of covid and another respiratory virus is thought to be low, a positive finding of another respiratory pathogen does not exclude the diagnosis of covid,dont visit family members with suspected illness   keep up with them virtually. , most people who get covid will be able to recover at home., if your child has new or worsening emergency warning signs, such as trouble breathing, pain or pressure in the chest, confusion or inability to wake them up, or bluish lips or face, call 911. ,stay home. call your doctor to talk about your symptoms and let them know youre coming for an appointment so they can prepare for your visit.,a novel covid is a new covid that has not been previously identifed. the virus causing covid disease 2019 (covid), is not the same as the covides that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common cold., covids are spherical, enveloped, and the largest of positive strand rna v,stay in touch with your childs school., talk to the school or facility about their emergency operations plan.,cdc does not require an autopsy before the remains of a person who died overseas are returned to the united states. depending on the circumstances surrounding the death, some countries may require an autopsy. , when a us citizen dies outside the united states, the deceased persons next of kin or legal representative should notify us consular officials at the department of state. ,currently, there is no evidence to suggest the virus that causes covid is circulating in free living wildlife in the united states, or that wildlife might be a source of infection for people in the united states. , other covides have been found in north american bats in the past, but there is currently no evidence that the virus that causes covid is present in any free living wildlife in the united states, including bats. ,single stranded, linear, and nonsegmented rna, 31 kb,digestive tract might be one extrapulmonary site for virus replication, in the anal swab cohort (figure 1 (b)), 11 of 28 cases were detected to be anal swab positive, 8 of them (72.7%) were with severe symptoms, which was significantly higher than that 4 (23.5%) of the rest 17 cases without detectable virus in anal were severe cases,the novel covid (covid) infection caused pneumonia. , covid disease 2019 (covid  19),12 jan 20, 2 weeks,in some cases, a vaccine might give stronger protection than antibodies produced after being infected, epidemiologist. ,its not the cabin air you need to worry about. its keeping your hands clean.,read or watch local media sources that report school dismissals or and watch for communication from your childs school.,we really should be, said dr. anthony fauci, a member of the white house covid task force. ,the new covid is different from these, and was only identified in december 2019.,if you are healthy and interested in donating blood, the fda encourages you to contact a local donation center to make an appointment., blood donors must be healthy and feel well on the day of donation. routine blood donor screening measures that are already in place should prevent individuals with respiratory infections from donating blood. ,while it is possible to use 3d printing to make certain ppe, there are technical challenges. 3d printed ppe may provide a physical barrier, but 3d printed ppe are unlikely to provide the same fluid barrier and air filtration protection as fda cleared surgical masks and n95 respirators,doctors say its not realistic to test all 328 million people in the us, especially since many states are still struggling to get enough tests or testing supplies. ,no. thats just a hoax going around the internet.,some cases of covid do lead to pneumonia. but the pneumonia vaccine wont help,if you rely on public transportation, use caution. if youre sick or live in an area where an outbreak has been reported, avoid it. ,it takes anything up to six weeks to recover from this disease.,if you can, you should stay home from work when youre sick, whether or not you have covid. , stay home if you can. talk to your employer to discuss working from home, taking leave if you or someone in your household gets sick with covid symptoms, or if your childs school is dismissed temporarily. ,people in the u.s. may be worried or anxious about friends and relatives who are living in or visiting areas where covid is spreading. some people are worried about getting the disease from these people. fear and anxiety can lead to social stigma, for example, toward people who live in certain parts of the world, people who have traveled internationally, people who were in quarantine, or healthcare professionals. ,the number of cases of covid being reported in the united states is rising due to increased laboratory testing and reporting across the country. the growing number of cases in part re$ects the rapid spread of covid as many u.s. states and territories experience community spread.,cdc is working with other federal partners in a whole of government response.,betacovid,limited information available regarding incubation time, transmissibility, and virus origin,global initiative on sharing all influenza data (gisaid), global initiative on sharing all influenza data (gisaid) (https//www.gisaid.org/),the seafood market, bats